Draft package vignettes (#17)
CityRiverSpaces/CRiSp: vignettes/multiple-cities.Rmd

---
title: "5. Multiple delineations"
output: rmarkdown::html_vignette
vignette: >
  %\VignetteIndexEntry{5. Multiple delineations}
  %\VignetteEngine{knitr::rmarkdown}
  %\VignetteEncoding{UTF-8}
---

```{r, include = FALSE}
knitr::opts_chunk$set(
  collapse = TRUE,
  comment = "#>"
)
```

```{r setup}
library(CRiSp)
```

## Motivation

Comparative analysis can shed light on patterns that are not visible in a single case. The automated delineation provided by CRiSp allows for a reliable frame of reference for such comparisons, including:

1. all cities along a large river;
1. all river-crossed cities of a given size;

> 1. all cities crossed by rivers of the same kind in a given region.

Reviewer: The numbers need a fix, now they are all `1.`

Author: That's intentional, will show up correctly when rendered. I was doing that while compiling the list and changing their order, but once it is final I can also number them properly in the source document.

We can use the `delineate_corridor()` function repeatedly to extract data for multiple cities and compare them. This vignette shows how to extract data for multiple cities and rivers and how to compare them.

## Data

We focus on the following five cities and rivers:

```{r, eval=FALSE}
cities <- c("Bucharest, Romania", "Vienna, Austria", "Paris, France",
            "London, United Kingdom", "Berlin, Germany")
rivers <- c("Dâmbovița", "Wienfluss", "Seine", "Thames", "Spree")
```

## Delineation

We can use the `map2()` function form the `purrr` package to iterate over the cities and rivers and extract their corridor boundaries. We can skip parts of the delineation by passing the respective parameters to the `purrrr::map2()` function. We skip riverspace delineation in this case. The result is a list of delineated corridors.

```{r, eval=FALSE}
corridors <- purrr::map2(cities, rivers, delineate_corridor, riverspace = FALSE)
corridors[[1]]
```

## Validation

> We can validate the results either by plotting the corridors of each city or by checking if the delineation resulted in any empty geometries. While the former can be a quick way to validate a small number of cities, the latter is better suited for a larger number of cases.

Reviewer 2: Is there no other way than an empty geometry for the delineation to fail? Certainly for now this is fine, and it correctly highlights the need for automated sanity checks when scaling analysis, but this statement seems to be very definitive about possible failure modes.

Author: @meiertgrootes, this is about a user-facing failure that disregards the cause of failure. Tests will catch more situations in which delineation fails. One would need to investigate the reason why missing geometries are identified. 

Or do you have other modes of failure that we should consider?

Author: ```suggestion
We can validate the results either by plotting the corridors of each city or by checking if the delineation resulted in any empty geometries. While the former can be a quick way to validate a small number of cities, the latter is better suited for a larger number of cases and requires automated tests that identify the exact causes of missing geometries.
```

```{r, eval=FALSE}
purrr::map(corridors, ~ .x |> st_is_empty())
```

## Parallelisation

> When used on multiple cities this can quickly become computationally expensive. To improve computation, we can run the function in parallel with an homologous function from the `furrr` package. 

Reviewer 2: This is absolutely only a suggestion. Please do with it as you see fit. The suggested changes are motivated only by trying to create consistency in expression with the `furrr` package, which makes no mention of homologous functions.

```suggestion
Analysing  multiple cities with CRiSp in this fashion can quickly become computationally expensive. However, as the analysis required for each city is independent of that of the other cities, we can improve the wall-time of the computation (i.e. the time we must wait for our results), by using the `furrr` package to map and execute the analysis functions for each city in parallel.
```
